# Python-Capstone-Finance-Tracker
This project incorporates multiple Python concepts to create a Personal Finance Tracker that can add expenses, view every expense, and be able to sum up all expenses by category. To run the script, you can either run the python file by clicking the run button through the IDE that you use, or by typing python finance_tracker.py within your terminal line.

Once the Finance Tracker program is ran, "Welcome to the Personal Finance Tracker!" is written into the command line, and a global dictionary variable called expense_dictionary is created, allowing it to be used across all functions within the python program. Then, my main menu function is ran, which prints out all of the options that are available to use. the user is then prompted to put in an input, which either results in a function being run depending on the command (add_expense, view_expenses, view_summary, and exit), or a ValueError is thrown stating that there was an invalid argument passed through, prompting the user to put in a new command. View_expenses prints out all expenses that are stored within the finance tracker, while view_summary prints out the sum of expenses according to each category. Add_expense prompts the user to input a description of the expense they want to add, along with the category and the amount, and then adds it to the global dictionary.

Some python concepts that I used for this project were variables, I used string and integer variables to store the description, category, and amount. I also used a dictionary to store all of the saved expenses along with a tuple that would store the description and the amount of the expense. Within the add_expense function I used a loop to infinitely be able to add more and more expenses to the dictionary. I used functions to be able to segment my code to make it much more readible, I have four functions, one for each calculator command along with one to display the main menu. Finally, I used exception handling to make sure that all inputs were accommodated for and would catch any invalid inputs made by the user.
